In this video, we're going to start to write out a config file for a deployment.
So let's get to it back inside to my code editor.
I'm going to delete the Post Gamble file if you want to, you can back up this file or just change the
extension, something like that.
You want to make sure you don't have this file anymore.
So if you want to keep a backup, I would encourage you to add on a like old or something like that
extension to the very end.
So I'm going to delete that file because we don't want to create an individual pod anymore.
And then inside my kids directory, I'm going to make a new file called post dash devel.
The DEP on there indicates that this file is going to create a deployment.
So devel is just deployment for short.
That's all.
Inside of here.
We're going to write out once again some config to create a deployment.
And inside this config, we're going to say that we want to run some number of pods that are going to
run our post image.
So let's get to it.
A lot of the code or configuration we're going to write inside of here is going to be very similar to
the stuff that we just wrote out for a pod.
We'll first start off with an API version.
And in this case, we're going to put an APS slash V one.
So remember, there are certain buckets of different types of objects we have access to.
In this case, the deployment is inside this bucket of different objects called app slash v one.
A pod, as you will recall, was inside of just v one.
Well, then specify the kind of object that we are trying to create.
So it's a deployment.
Well, then set up some metadata.
And in this case, we're just going to assign a name to it.
So let's say post dash depot, that is going to be the name of my deployment.
Again, I'm putting on the dash double here so that if I ever print out some logs or something like
that about all the objects inside my cluster, i'll see devel and know that this is a deployment.
After that, I'll put in a spec section.
So this is going to specify exactly how this deployment should behave.
The first property will designate inside of here is replicas.
And I'm going to give it a one for right now.
Replicas is the number of pods that we want to create running some particular image.
So in this diagram over here, I'm showing three separate pods.
Right now, we're not going to run three separate pods.
We're going to run just one by itself.
Now the next little piece of configuration here is going to be just a little bit mysterious.
So we'll write it out and then take write out a little bit additional config after that.
And we'll talk about how these two parts of config kind of work together.
I'm going to say selector.
Then match labels.
And then app posts.
Remember that inside of a YAML file indentation is a big deal, so you need to make sure that you've
got one level of indentation on selector, then two and then three.
So again, we'll talk about what this is in just a second.
First, we're going to write out another little bit of config.
I'm going to say template.
Then metadata labels.
And then app posts.
All right.
So these two sections right here, the selector thing and this metadata thing right here, are really
working together.
This might sound really you know, it's funny.
It might sound like kind of crazy.
But to be honest with you, a deployment kind of has a hard time figuring out which pods it should manage
inside of our cluster.
In other words, if a set of pods get created, we have to somehow give the deployment some information
and tell it, Hey, these pods over here.
These are the ones you need to manage.
And that's what the goal of this selector and metadata labels app thing is all about.
This selector right here is saying, take a look at all the different pods that have been created.
Find all the pods with a label of app posts.
So this right here is what we refer to as a label.
It's essentially, well, a label, it's a key value pair is just applying some arbitrary information
to a pod.
App right here doesn't really have any special meaning.
We can set up labels with any structure you can imagine, so we can have a label of like that right
there.
So in this case, we are telling the deployment that we wanted to find all the different pods with a
label of app posts.
And those are the pods that it should be in charge of.
Then inside this template section, the template is where we specify the exact configuration of a pod
that we want this deployment to create.
So this right here is some configuration that is going to be applied to the pod that the deployment
is going to make.
We are saying that we want the pod to have a label of app posts.
So again, this part right here and this part right here are really working together to tell the deployment
about which pods it should try to manage.
After that, we'll then set up a spec.
This back again.
Everything inside this template thing right here can be really thought of as a pod spec or a pod config
file, very similar to the pod config file we had just a moment ago.
So the spec section right here is describing the specification or the configuration options for the
pod that we're trying to make.
So we will designate containers.
We're going to have one container.
So containers is an array, remember?
And inside of YAML, we designate an array entry with a single dash.
We'll say that the container should have a name of post.
And it should run the image of your docker ID so not mine.
Whatever your doctor ID is.
Slash posts and then version 001.
Like so.
And that's it.
That is our deployment config.
Now, over time, you're going to see that there are many other options or pieces of configuration we
can specify in here.
This is about as barebones a configuration as we can get when we are creating a deployment.
Let's save this.
And then finally, we're going to go back over to our terminal and we're going to try to apply this
to our cluster.
Remember, any time we want to make a change to our cluster, we create those config files and we will
run that CTL, apply command that we saw that we use just a moment ago to create a pod.
So to apply this config file, we will run cube, ctrl, apply chef and then post devel yaml.
And that's it.
Now, the deployment has been created, but what does that really do for us?
Well, let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video and we'll see what creating the deployment really did to our
cluster.